>From the code example
in the documentation,
you'll notice that the download files
task class extends asynch task.
The name is followed by additional
class names in brackets.
Remember that the brackets indicate that
there are three generic parameters for
the asynctask.
We first learned about generics when
we were building the Miwok app.
We created an array list
of vocabulary words and
displayed them using
a custom array adapter.
The ArrayList and ArrayAdapter classes
accept generic type parameters.
The E and
T are placeholders for the specific
object data types that we want to use.
By using generics, we can rely on the
Java language to ensure that the right
type of data is being passed into and
out of methods.
For example,
whatever data type E represents
will be the required data type for
input to the ArrayList add method
to add another element to the list.
If you call the get method
at a certain index,
an object of type E will be returned.
This is called type safety.
The Java language enforces
type safety by showing errors.
If you're passing on
the wrong data type or
if you store the return value
of method in the wrong data type
you won't be able to run your
app until you fix these errors.
When we use this generic class,
we swap the generic E placeholder for
a specific data type like the string
class to have an array list of strings.
We replace everywhere there
used to be an E with a string.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
As a result, we can only add objects
of the string data type to the list.
If we request an item
at a specific index,
the array list will return
a string data type.
In the Miwok app, we wanted to use a
custom data type that was a little more
complex than the string object.
Recall that we created a custom
word class to hold the English and
Miwok translations for a word.
To form a list, we specify the generic
E parameter to be a word object so
we would have an array list of words.
Then, when we added or
retrieved an entry from the ArrayList,
we could ensure that
it was a Word object.
Then we could call specific methods
on the Word object to extract our
English or Miwok translations.
That would not be possible if
the Get method returned a string or
a different object data type.
Similarly, in the Miwok app,
we used generics to create
a custom ArrayAdapter of Words.
We could expect each item in the
adapters dataset to be a word object.
Now that we've reviewed generics, let's
go back to the AsyncTask documentation.